# teensy_FrequencySmearing
# Idea and background
Digital signal processing plays an important role in everyday life. Advances in electronics made it possible to provide powerful and low-cost solutions for many types of signal processing applications. Especially the design and availability of low-cost and powerful microcontroller systems allow creation of a broad variety of applications at low prices. Recently, hardware evaluations platforms have been introduced with the goal to provide an easy-access, open-source and low-budget solution to develop electronic devices. One application suitable for microcontrollers is the implementation of digital audio processing systems. The cycle-by cycle execution scheme, paired with the hardware oriented programming, makes this system very suitable for the development of an audio DSP platform which can be used for the development of small-scale systems like audio effect boxes, demonstrators of hearing-instrument processing and also as a platform for teaching purposes. Since working with such a platform requires knowledge of many fields, reaching from basic electrodynamics over analogue and digital signal processing, it seems especially suitable for the engineering education at DTU Electrical Engineering. 
In this project, a microcontroller-based development platform (TEENSY) which features an integrated DSP coprocessor will be evaluated for its applicability for a real-time audio DSP demonstrator for hearing impairment. Consequences of hearing impairment are changes in the perception of sound, leading to deficits in communication. It will be investigated to which extent this processor can serve as a platform to implement published algorithms to mimic hearing impairment in normal-hearing listeners in real-time.

# Project outcomes

The goal of the present project is to design a simulator of hearing impairment, based on the TEENSY microcontroller platform with a real-time DSP algorithm. The simulator will be able to process a single-channel microphone signal and output the processed signal on a loudspeaker or a headphone. The software will be developed using a version control system (GIT) and made available under an open source license.
